---
title: "Portal"
description: "use a portal to simplify data collection for your users"
icon: "person-to-portal"
---

The Flatfile Portal is a user-friendly interface that allows users to upload
files directly into your application. This intuitive design ensures that users
can quickly upload their data without needing technical expertise.

## Features

### Easy Data Import

The Flatfile Portal simplifies the data import process by allowing users to drag
and drop files directly into the interface. This intuitive design ensures that
users can quickly upload their data without needing technical expertise.

### Customizable Spaces

Each instance of the Flatfile Portal operates within a "Space." A Space is a
dedicated environment where users can manage their data imports. You can
customize the Space to fit your branding and user experience needs, ensuring
that it aligns with your application's look and feel.

### Real-Time Data Validation

As users upload their files, the Flatfile Portal automatically validates the
data in real-time. This feature helps to catch errors early in the process,
ensuring that only clean, accurate data is imported into your application.

### Integration with Your Application

Once the data is validated, it can be seamlessly integrated into your
application. The Flatfile Portal provides APIs that allow you to
programmatically access the imported data, making it easy to incorporate it into
your existing workflows.

### User Management and Permissions

The Flatfile Portal includes built-in user management features, allowing you to
control who has access to the data import functionality. You can set permissions
based on user roles, ensuring that sensitive data is only accessible to
authorized personnel.

## Getting Started

### Embed the Portal in Your Application

After configuring your Space, you can embed the Flatfile Portal into your
application. This is typically done by including a JavaScript snippet that
initializes the Flatfile import functionality.

### Configure Your Import Settings

Once your Space is created, you can configure the import settings. This includes
defining the types of files that can be uploaded, setting validation rules, and
customizing the user interface to match your brand.

### Start Importing Data

With everything set up, users can start importing data into your application.
They can simply drag and drop their files into the Flatfile Portal, and the data
will be processed and validated in real-time.

### Egress Imported Data

Once the data is imported, you can access it through the Flatfile API. This
allows you to integrate the data into your application's workflows, ensuring
that it is readily available for use.
